Tesla

Tesla’s mission is to accelerate the world’s transition to sustainable energy.


Tesla’s vision statement is “to create the most compelling car company of the 21st century by driving the world’s transition to electric vehicles.” 


Tesla’s core values comprise “doing the best, taking risks, respect, constant learning, and environmental consciousness.” 


As Tesla's corporate strategy states: "We do not cut corners, and we do not settle. No forecast is perfect, but try anyway. We constantly strive to improve the accuracy of our forecasts as well as the reliability and service with which they are delivered. Respect and encourage people."


esla’s generic competitive strategy is broad differentiation. This generic strategy builds competitive advantage based on the development of products that differentiate the company from other firms in the industry. For example, Tesla Inc.’s products are competitive because they integrate advanced environmentally friendly technology, considering that the vast majority of automobiles today use internal combustion engines. In using this generic competitive strategy, the company broadly attracts all potential customers, who are now increasingly interested in environmentally friendly products. Initially, Tesla used differentiation focus as its generic strategy for competitive advantage. In applying the differentiation focus strategy, the company emphasized the uniqueness of its products, but also focused mainly on early adopters in the high-end market for electric vehicles. These early adopters are affluent customers who have a high tendency to purchase newly introduced products. However, now that the company is already popular and production costs are declining, Tesla’s generic competitive strategy has shifted to broad differentiation. The declining production costs and increasing brand popularity enables the company to broadly target customers in the automobile market.

The generic strategy of Tesla, Inc. requires suitable strategic objectives to ensure competitive advantage. For example, one of the company’s strategic objectives is to increase investment in research and development (R&D) to develop new products that satisfy market demand for enhanced renewable energy solutions, such as batteries for various purposes. Another strategic objective connected to Tesla’s generic competitive strategy is to strengthen competitiveness by broadening its market reach to generate more sales and support brand popularity.